# BSE Casida Equation Solver for Matsubara Green's Function Methods

This python module implements a solver for the Bethe-Salpeter Equation (BSE) using the Casida formalism on the sparse sampled Matsubara frequency grid. It is designed to compute optical excitation energies and properties within the BSE@sc*GW* framework.

The Casida equation is formulate as follows:

$$
\begin{pmatrix}
\textbf{A} & \textbf{B} \\ 
-\textbf{B}^* & -\textbf{A}^* 
\end{pmatrix}\begin{pmatrix}
X_\lambda \\ 
Y_\lambda
\end{pmatrix} = \Omega_\lambda\begin{pmatrix}
X_\lambda \\ 
Y_\lambda
\end{pmatrix}
$$

$$
\begin{align}
\Delta \epsilon_{vcv'c'} &= (\epsilon_c - \epsilon_v)\delta_{vv'}\delta_{cc'},  \\
A_{(vc)(v'c')} &= \Delta \epsilon_{vcv'c'} +\kappa \cdot U_{vcv'c'} - W_{vv'c'c},  \\
B_{(vc)(v'c')} &= \kappa \cdot U_{vcc'v'} - W_{vc'v'c}. 
\end{align}
$$

Refer to our upcoming paper for more theoretical background. 

## Main Features

- Solves dynamic BSE equations on imaginary frequency grid
- Provides dynamic solutions and spectral function via plasmon pole fitting
- Draws molecular orbitals for each particle-hole pair
- Quasi-particle (QP) approximation for *GW* energy levels
- Tamm-Dancoff approximation (TDA) option for Casida equation
- Currently only supports molecular or single *k*-point systems

Python dependency
-----------

| Package    | Version    |
|------------|------------|
| `h5py`     | 3.15.1     |
| `irbasis`  | 2.2.3      |
| `joblib`   | 1.5.3      |
| `numpy`    | 2.4.0      |
| `pyscf`    | 2.8.0      |
| `scipy`    | 1.16.3     |
| `psutil`   | 7.2.1      |
| `green-mbtools` | 0.3.0 |

These python packages are necessary to run this `green-bse` package if you have *GW* data on the Matsubara axis and grid information available.
If you would like to generate Matsubara-axis-based sc*GW* results from scratch, `green-mbpt` should be used. 

Input Files
-----------

- `input.h5`: Mean-field (HF/DFT) reference output data, generated by `green-mbtools` and `pyscf`.
- `sim.h5`: Single-particle Green's function reuslts from scGW iterations, generated by `green-mbpt`.
- `df_hf_int/`: Path for electron repulsion integrals (ERI) in auxiliary basis, `green-mbtools` and `pyscf`.
- IR basis file: Intermediate representation grid information, available in `green-irgrids`.

Usage Example
-------------

Job submission scripts are included in `example` or `script` folders. The usage of main job script is as follows:

```bat
export SCRIPTDIR=/your/code/directory/green-bse/script
export INPUTDIR=/your/input/directory
export SIMDIR=/your/input/directory
export IRDIR=/your/irgrid/directory

python $SCRIPTDIR/solveCasida_main.py --type singlet \
       --calc_pi 1 --qpac 1 --monitor 1 --n_jobs -1 \
       --iter -1 --iter_W -1 --beta 1000 \
       --sim $SIMDIR/sim.h5 \
       --int_path $INPUTDIR/df_hf_int/ \
       --input $INPUTDIR/input.h5 \
       --ir_file $IRDIR/1e5_136.h5 \
       --output $SIMDIR/bse_singlet.h5 
```

Redirect to `script` and run `python solveCasida_main.py -h` to see the definitions of all arguments used in `solveCasida_main.py`. Some useful argument definitions:

- `calc_pi`: Calculate polarizability on the fly (default: `True`)
- `qpac`: Use QP for *GW* energy levels (default: `True`)
- `monitor`: Memory and parallelization monitoring (default: `True`)
- `iter` and `iter_W`: The iteration number to read from `sim.h5` (default: `-1` for the lastest iteration). `iter` is for the Green's function and `iter_W` is for screened Coulomb iteraction. They should be the same, but two separate variables are defined for testing purposes. 
- `n_jobs`: Number of threads to be used. (default: `-1` to use all threads available)
- `output`: Output file containing excitation energies, eigenvectors, and fitted poles.


Try it out now!
-------------

We have provided an example of dinitrogen molecule in the `STO-3G` basis set. 
It is a very small system that you can easily run on your desktop.
In '/example/N2_STO3G', you can find all the referential outputs you needed from mean-field and sc*GW* calculations, as well as an IR grid file. 
A BSE@sc*GW* calculation can be run using these files as inputs.

First, make sure your `python` environment satisfies the aforementioned dependency and download this `python` package.
Redirect to `green-bse/example/N2_STO3G`, simply run the `bash` command line:

```bat
sh bse_singlet.sh > bse_singlet.log
```

This submits a BSE calculation and the results will be saved in a `HDF5` file. 
In the `.log` file you can also find the printed values of static and dynamic particle-hole excitations.
By changing the `--type` argument from `singlet` to `triplet`, you can calculate the triplet excitations.
After the BSE calculation is done and results are saved, you can run these two scripts:

```bat
sh check_MO_molden.sh 
sh plot_plas_pole.sh 
sh plot_spectrum.sh 
```

`check_MO_molden.sh` generates the `.molden` files for each particle-hole excitation. 
It contains the MO that hosts the electron originally and the hole MO it is excited to. 
You can use any software that visualizes orbital information in `.molden` files to identify the excitation type.

`plot_plas_pole.sh` plots the BSE-computed auxiliary response function and compare it with the plasmon-pole fitted results.

`plot_spectrum.sh` plots the neutral excitation spectrum. The dynamical solutions are plotted as blue curves. The static solutions are plotted as pink poles. 
